
== What is Jekyll ==
Jekyll is a simple, Ruby powered, blog aware, static site generator. It takes a template directory (representing the raw form of a website), runs it through Markdown and Liquid converters, and spits out a complete, static website.

== Installing Jekyll ==
*To install Jekyll on linux visit : https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/Install
*Installing Jekyll on windows
**The best way to install Jekyll is via RubyGems. On windows machine you need to install [RubyInstaller DevKit].
**For instruction about installing RubyInstaller DevKit visit:  https://github.com/oneclick/rubyinstaller/wiki/development-kit
**Navigate to your ruby installation directory and execute '''''gem install jekyll'''''. Jekyll requires the gems directory_watcher, liquid, open4, maruku and classifier. These are automatically installed by the gem install command.
**After installing Jekyll you need to install Jekyll-Pagination, execute '''''gem install jekyll-pagination''''' command at command prompt.

== Creating a Jekyll site ==
Creating a Jekyll site usually involves the following, once jekyll is installed.
*Set up the basic structure of the site.
*Create some posts.
*Run your site locally to see how it looks.
*Deploy your site.

=== Basic Structure ===
Jekyll at its core is a text transformation engine. The concept behind the system is this: you give it text written in your favorite markup language, be that Markdown, Textile, or just plain HTML, and it churns that through a layout or series of layout files. Throughout that process you can tweak how you want the site URLs to look, what data gets displayed on the layout and more. This is all done through strictly editing files, and the web interface is the final product.
A basic Jekyll site usually looks something like this:
<pre>
.
|-- _config.yml
|-- _includes
|-- _layouts
|   |-- default.html
|   |-- post.html
|-- _posts
|   |-- 2007-10-29-why-every-programmer-should-play-nethack.textile
|   |-- 2009-04-26-barcamp-boston-4-roundup.textile
|-- _site
|-- index.html
</pre>

'''_config.yml'''

Stores configuration data. A majority of these options can be specified from the command line executable but it's easier to throw them in here so you don't have to remember them.

'''_includes'''

These are the partials that can be mixed and matched by your _layouts and _posts to facilitate reuse. The liquid tag {% include file.ext %} can be used to include the partial in _includes/file.ext.

'''_layouts'''

These are the templates which posts are inserted into. Layouts are defined on a post-by-post basis in the YAML front matter. The liquid tag {{ content }} is used to inject data onto the page.

'''_posts'''

Your dynamic content, so to speak. The format of these files is important, as named as YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.MARKUP. The Permalinks can be adjusted very flexibly for each post, but the date and markup language are determined solely by the file name.

'''_site'''

This is where the generated site will be placed once Jekyll is done transforming it. 

'''index.html and Other HTML/Markdown/Textile Files'''

Provided that the file has a YAML Front Matter section, it will be transformed by Jekyll. The same will happen for any .html, .markdown, or .textile file in your site's root directory or directories not listed above.

'''Other Files/Folders'''

Every other directory and file except for those listed above will be transferred over as expected. Any files in these directories will be parsed and transformed, according to the same rules mentioned previously for files in the root directory.

===Running Jekyll===

Usually this is done through the jekyll executable, which is installed with the gem. In order to get a server up and running with your Jekyll site, run:

'''''jekyll --server'''''

and then browse to http://localhost:4000

== YAML Front Matter ==
Any files that contain a YAML front matter block will be processed by Jekyll as special files. The front matter must be the first thing in the file and takes the form of:
<pre>
---
layout: post
title: Blogging Like a Hacker
---
</pre>
For more information visit : https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/YAML-Front-Matter

== References ==

http://jekyllrb.com/

https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/usage

https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/YAML-Front-Matter

http://ostatic.com/blog/build-your-site-with-jekyll

